Plugins, all right so
because the Next.js config
file is dead simple and
it has a convention,
usually when there's conventions
there's also gonna be plugins, right?
Conventions usually equals plugins
because where there's a set or
rules that everyone has to follow,
that means it's predictable.
And if it's predictable,
you can create common logic and
plugins are just common logic is like,
all people just use this anyway, so
we'll just make a plug in, right?
So Next.js has plugins, but honestly
they don't even feel like plugins,
they're just like extended configurations.
I mean, they call them plugins, it doesn't
even feel like they had to made it,
it was so free that it was just like yeah,
it's like they didn't really
make a plugin system.
It was just, the way that you
configure your Next.js or sorry,
your next config file, makes it so
that plugins are possible, but I don't
think they went and designed a plugin
system because it's very, very simple.
But basically it kind of looks like this,
the convention is,
most of the time you'll
see something like this,
like with under the name of the plugin,
so kinda like a higher order component.
So withOffline, withSass,
withLess things like that, and
that's kinda how you would use the plugin.
And all you really do for
most the time is you gotta just wrap
the configuration that
you have with the plugin.
Because what most plugins do is that
they might take in some options, so
withOffline might take in some options
as the first arguments like this,
let me just demonstrate.
So if I had to plug in like withOffline,
or SSL, say this withMyPlugin,
All right, let's just say we have that.
And then what I'll do is get
rid of this right click, and
I'll make my config here so
this will be my next configure
here, Object right here.
And then what I'll do is, let's say
I have a plugin call withMyPlugin.
Sometimes this plugin might take
some arguments for the plugin so
the args for the plugin go first.
And then it's usually almost
always your next config goes here.
If your plugin doesn't take any arguments,
it's usually just the next config.
And the reason that happens is
because at the end of the day,
you have to return a config
object inside of this file.
So if you're using a plugin, then you
pass your config object to the plugin and
the plugin just returns it for you.
So that's usually the convention and
that's why it works that way.
And that is actually really
useful because it allows you to
basically creates this system
of plugins consuming plugins,
right kind of like middleware in Express.
So various Express is
very similar to that.
And that's exactly what
we're gonna do now.
So there's this really cool plugin
called withPlugins, that allows you to
compose plugins together a lot easier
than if you did it yourself, and
that's actually what we're gonna do now.
So, what we're gonna do is we're
gonna add a plugin that allows us to
easily add environment variables to
our next app, so without this plugin,
the way you would have to add environment
variables will look like this.
With Next.js, so if I have this config,
I will say module.exports = this object.
I can say { env: and I could put, my {EVN:
here, I can put whatever value I want.
It's pretty simple, this works very fine,
you might even ask yourself, why do I need
a plugin, because everything you have
here is gonna be injected into your code.
So that means I'm able to use
process.env.whatever you want,
and it's going to give me the value.
And if you ever use this plugin a web
pack, what actually happens is when
this file gets processed, it's going
to replace this whole value here,
this whole statement
with the actual value.
So as far as the browser is concerned,
this is gonna be replaced
with whatever the value was.
So it's never gonna see process.env,
it's never gonna see that,
this thing gets completely replaced.
So it's not the same thing as using
process.env in a node environment which
actually reads from the environment,
this is just a simple replacement just
replacing it as far as from
the browser's perspective.
So yeah, like I said,
you might be asking well,
why do we need a plugins
it's actually pretty simple.
Well, it's it's because this was a SECRET,
You're not just gonna put this
in here like this, all right?
You're not gonna just hard code
your secret API key here, and
then check it in Git.
Now you just wouldn't do that,
hopefully not.
So most likely you'll have a .env file,
so we actually have one right here.
So you should have a .env file in your
repo, if you don't, you can make one,
it's literally just a follow
on the roots called .env.
And the syntax for
the env file kind of goes as this,
you put the name of
the variable that you want.
And most environment variables are all
caps and they use a underscores to or
is it, was I called snake case like caps,
snake case or something like, well,
it's not snake case.
Is it snake case?
I don't know, so it'll do all caps like
that followed by the equal sign and
then whatever value you want for
that environment variable.
That's typically how a .env file works,
and
you can put more on the next
line if you want, like that.
All right so that's how .env files work,
and then would you want to do is you make
sure this file doesn't get checked
in to GitHub, all right, so
this file is not checked into GitHub,
and you're good to go.
So, now you can safely put your secrets
in here, and then inside of here,
you need to load up that .env and put it
here and that could be pretty manual.
So there's a plugin that kind
of helps us with that, and
that's what we're going to install.
So in order to get this to work,
please install two dependencies,
we're gonna install next env, and
then we're gonna install .env-load.
So if you got NPM, you can copy
that script, if you have yarn,
you can copy that.
I'm using yarn, so I'm gonna copy that.
I'm gonna add that, And actually,
you should just install
this as a dev dependency,
because it's only gonna use for building
so, definitely save the new dev there.
And once you have it, then all we're
gonna do is just load up this plugin so
it's actually pretty simple.
All we have to do is imports or
I'm sorry require what is it?
Like nextEnv = require('next-env'),
and then .envLoad =
require('dotenv-load').
So then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna say .envLoad like this, and
what this does is, this is gonna look for
a env file in your folder,
grab every environment variable in there,
and inject it into the environment for
you, so you don't have to do anything.
And then from there, all we're gonna do is
use this nextSnv, plug in, like that.
And that's going to allow us,
or I'm sorry,
you call the plugin I got it backwards so
you had to do it that way.
So what we'll do is we'll say,
withEnv = nextEnv.
There we go, nextEmv, and then that,
we can use that plug number here with Emv.
So what this is gonna do is, it's
basically gonna look at the Emv file, load
up all the environment variables in the
environment, inject them, this right here
is actually creating the plugin with the
environments loaded into it automatically.
So in the background you can imagine,
there's gonna be a config that
looks something like this.
So, There's gonna be a next
config that has env on it,
just like we had before, and
then every variable that's here, so
in this case, this HELP_APP_URL is
gonna be here with the actual value.
Like that, right?
So all that is being done for
us with these plugins and
the combination of that little,
so that's just for free.
So now we get to do that.
Pretty free, pretty easy way to load
yourself up for development, and yeah,
I have a warning here, don't check that
into Git if you never use .env files,
please don't check them into
Git that's the whole point.
And then the last thing we'll
do is we'll just update,
we'll use this environment
variable somewhere, so I'm just
using it as an anchor tag inside of
the nav component, so we'll just do that.
And I'm just gonna copy this, and we're
gonna go into our nav component here.
And I'm just gonna add that
anchor tag after the link, and
fix that formatting, and
some more indents, there we go.
And basically, it's just a link to
like an external help app desk or
something that you have for your
customers on your note app, that's it,
just to demonstrate how this will work.
So remember,
this gets completely replaced with a
string as far as the browser's concerned.
So we got that, I might have to start
the app again, [SOUND] there we go.
And you can see I'm still getting,
you have no export configuration,
that's because I did not put
a configuration here, right?
So I don't have an export so
I'm totally fine with that warning.
I have nothing to export there,
so it's totally fine.
Go back here and
now you see I have this Help thing here
that points to Frontend Masters, right?
So whatever URL that you put in that
Emv file, is what's gonna be there.
And like I said, you can do all different
types of stuff with these plugins,
very legit, very simple to work with.
Any questions on plugins and
configuration with the next config file?
>> Yeah, is there a place like in
the documentation that lists all
the plugins that you can use,
or just how do you find them?
>> Yeah so there are official ones,
and I'll show you those right now.
And then most of them are just like any
other plugins, their community plugins, so
everyone has their own thing.
But if you go to Vercel > Next Plugins,
here's all the official ones,
that they that they have, are they
here are some notable community ones.
But I'm sure you'll find dozens of
more that aren't even on this list.
And the other thing is that Next.js has
as recently released a new version 9.3,
and these new versions, I've actually
changed how some of these plugins work and
stuff like that.
So just be careful about when the last
time one of these plugins was updated,
make sure it was,
updated last couple months.
Cuz if it's like a plugin
from two years ago,
it might not work with how Next works now,
so just be careful of that.
But yeah, they got some pretty
good plugins here, like Preacts,
if you're anti-Facebook, but you like
React then Preact might be the way to go.
It's a drop in replacement,
things like that.
TypeScript was actually you don't need
anymore because TypeScript is supported
from Next.js out of the box,
which is actually I'm about
to show you how that works.
So yeah, stuff like that.
So yeah pretty good,
some really nice plugins out there.
But at the end of the day, most of them
just kind of modify the Webpack config,
at the end of the day.
They take some Webpack logic,
they wrap it in the Next.js configurable
plug in and boom, there you go.
Most of them that's what they do.